README.md, before:

# Gray-Matter-Lane-Detection

In this project, we have use two approach but the second approach doesnot work well with the Indian Roads.


## First Approach 
In this we use a deep learning-based approach to improve upon lane detection. 
We uses a fully convolutional neural network to output an image of a predicted lane.

<p align="center">
  Lane detection using Deep Learning<br>
  <img width="600" height="400" src="https://github.com/Giscle/Gray-Matter-Lane-Detection/blob/master/output.gif">
</p>


## Software Requirements:
If using Linux or Mac, you can use this conda environment file. In the command line, use conda env create -f lane_environment.yml and then source activate lane_environment to use the environment. This is a slightly modified environment from that used in Term of the Udacity SDCND. Please see the note on moviepy below.

Alternatively, you can use the following:

    Python 3.5 or higher. Most of the included code also works in Python 2.7, although the pickle files used for the training images and labels are encoded for use in Python 3 and would need to be loaded and restructured to work in Python 2.7. I would suggest downloading with Anaconda as you will get some of the below
    TensorFlow - Suggested to download TensorFlow GPU for best performance
    Keras
    OpenCV (known as cv2 once downloaded) - opencv-python if installing from command line
    h5py
    imageio
    matplotlib
    moviepy
    numpy+mkl
    scikit-learn
    scipy


## Dataset:
You can download the full training set of images I used here(https://www.dropbox.com/s/rrh8lrdclzlnxzv/full_CNN_train.p?dl=0) and the full set of 'labels' (which are just the 'G' channel from an RGB image of a re-drawn lane with an extra dimension added to make use in Keras easier) here(https://www.dropbox.com/s/ak850zqqfy6ily0/full_CNN_labels.p?dl=0) (157 MB).


## Key Files:
fully_conv_NN.py -This is the fully convolutional neural network to train using that data.

full_CNN_model.h5 - These are the final outputs from the above CNN. Note that if you train the 
file above the originals here will be overwritten! These get fed into the below.

draw_detected_lanes.py - Using the trained model and an input video, this predicts the lane, averages across 5 frames, and returns the original video with predicted lane lines drawn onto it. 


## Second Approach 
This approach is based on edge detection using opencv followed by masking the image
with region of interest and then applying hough transformation to get the lane lines.
Steps to be followed :-

1.Apply some filtering/blurring to get sharp edges & rid of noises in the roads ( we
can experiment and choose any one filtering from bilateral filter, gabor filter,
trilateral filter )

2.Conversion of image to grayscale ( This is help in improving our processing
time).

3.Apply canny detector, to detect the edges.

4.Apply a ROI mask ( to eliminate the non-required elements from the scene).

5.Apply hough transform (this step also requires a vigorous experimentation with
tweaking of parameters).

6.Detect the lane lines.

7.Mask the lines to the original image.

The above seven steps will mark the end of our Approach 2.


## Original Source:

https://github.com/naokishibuya/car-finding-lane-lines/

https://github.com/mvirgo/MLND-Capstone

Commit message:

approach 2 notebook added and readme updated

README.md, after:

# Gray-Matter-Lane-Detection

In this project, we have use two approach but the second approach doesnot work well with the Indian Roads.


## First Approach 
In this we use a deep learning-based approach to improve upon lane detection. 
We uses a fully convolutional neural network to output an image of a predicted lane.

<p align="center">
  Lane detection using Deep Learning<br>
  <img width="600" height="400" src="https://github.com/Giscle/Gray-Matter-Lane-Detection/blob/master/output.gif">
</p>

The above result was obtained while running the model with pre-trained weights, we believe the results will be great after training the model with our own data.

## Original Source:

https://github.com/mvirgo/MLND-Capstone

## Software Requirements:
If using Linux or Mac, you can use this conda environment file. In the command line, use conda env create -f lane_environment.yml and then source activate lane_environment to use the environment. This is a slightly modified environment from that used in Term of the Udacity SDCND. Please see the note on moviepy below.

Alternatively, you can use the following:

    Python 3.5 or higher. Most of the included code also works in Python 2.7, although the pickle files used for the training images and labels are encoded for use in Python 3 and would need to be loaded and restructured to work in Python 2.7. I would suggest downloading with Anaconda as you will get some of the below
    TensorFlow - Suggested to download TensorFlow GPU for best performance
    Keras
    OpenCV (known as cv2 once downloaded) - opencv-python if installing from command line
    h5py
    imageio
    matplotlib
    moviepy
    numpy+mkl
    scikit-learn
    scipy


## Dataset (non - indian):
You can download the full training set of images I used here(https://www.dropbox.com/s/rrh8lrdclzlnxzv/full_CNN_train.p?dl=0) and the full set of 'labels' (which are just the 'G' channel from an RGB image of a re-drawn lane with an extra dimension added to make use in Keras easier) here(https://www.dropbox.com/s/ak850zqqfy6ily0/full_CNN_labels.p?dl=0) (157 MB).

## Dataset (indian):
Keep an eye, will be updated soon :)


## Key Files:
fully_conv_NN.py -This is the fully convolutional neural network to train using that data.

full_CNN_model.h5 - These are the final outputs from the above CNN. Note that if you train the 
file above the originals here will be overwritten! These get fed into the below.

draw_detected_lanes.py - Using the trained model and an input video, this predicts the lane, averages across 5 frames, and returns the original video with predicted lane lines drawn onto it. 


## Second Approach 

This approach is based on edge detection using opencv followed by masking the image
with region of interest and then applying hough transformation to get the lane lines.
Steps to be followed :-

1.Apply some filtering/blurring to get sharp edges & rid of noises in the roads ( we
can experiment and choose any one filtering from bilateral filter, gabor filter,
trilateral filter )

2.Conversion of image to grayscale ( This is help in improving our processing
time).

3.Apply canny detector, to detect the edges.

4.Apply a ROI mask ( to eliminate the non-required elements from the scene).

5.Apply hough transform (this step also requires a vigorous experimentation with
tweaking of parameters).

6.Detect the lane lines.

7.Mask the lines to the original image.

This opencv based approach can be visualized by having a look at test.ipynb, where it can be sensed that this approach will completely be a failure , since in indian one will definately encounter some scenes, where the lane markings on the road will either be absent or noisy.

## Resource:

https://github.com/naokishibuya/car-finding-lane-lines/


In conclusion improving First Approach by training the model with own data and after that tuning the hyperparameters seems to be best approach for solving lane detection problem in indian roads.
